# GDIM32-Final
## Check-In
### Group Devlog
We used intermediate-level vector math in the form of spherical raycasts on the player to detect objects in front of it that are meant to be interacted with like the NPCs and collectable items. The sphere cast on the player object fires a ray defined by origin and direction vectors showing where it starts and where it points respectively, which we tuned to have it cast a ray directly in front of the player so that the player only detects things in front of it and not all around it. Our PlayerInteractor script uses rayOrigin.position and rayOrigin.forward, representing the origin and direction, then using SphereCast so the hitbox is more lenient than a thin line a regular raycast would give. The forward vector in “rayOrigin.forward” is a direction vector in the world space, having a magnitude of 1 and only representing direction. We multiplied this direction by the interaction distance and Unity computed the positions along the ray using vector addition. Using Spherecast sweeps the vector path with a sphere, checking for collisions within that volume of the sphere. This ensures interaction only happens in front of the player and prevents objects behind or to the sides from being detected as said earlier.

### Frances Kim
1. Contributions
- Imported 3D assets I modeled into Unity and made them into Prefabs to set up the scene
- Made the terrain GameObject and set up the textures for different terrain colors
- Found a toon shader online and extracted the materials from the assets and applied the shader to them.
- Built the animation controller for the Squirrel NPC, the Traveler NPC, and the Player.
- Coded the player's movement in the Witch class. This was done with a Vector3 variable called direction which takes in the horizontal and vertical input. This variable is multiplied by a speed variable and Time.deltaTime to move the character controller. There's also some math stuff to smooth the rotation so  the character doesn't snap to the WASD directions. I also normalized the diagonal movement in direction so going diagonally wouldn't be faster
- Player plays interaction animation when picking up collectable
- Set up the camera and cinemachine camera for a top down-ish view of the player
- Set up a new scene that held the cutscene (which is composed of different panels overlayed on top of each other, drawn by Rebecca) and coded the cutscene function. This was done with a class called SlideTransition, which is placed on the canvas containing all the slides. Using a foreach statement, I added all of the child GameObjects of the Canvas to a list of slides, setting the first one active. A method called MovetoNextSlide()  iterates through the slides until the selectedSlide is at 10, when it uses the SceneManager to load the Main scene which contains the game. I set up a button that covered the whole screen which called MovetoNextSlide() when clicked on
- Added background music to the game by attaching an audio source to the player which plays a looping audio on start
- Made a typewriter effect by modifying Landon's dialogue bubble script with an IEnumerator IncreaseMaxVisibleChar(string dialogue) which adds onto how many characters textmeshpro shows over time. When the interact button is pressed again while the typing effect is active, it sets the bool fullText to true, which makes all the text show at once
- Added a sound effect to play during the typewriter effect with an audioclip that's called within the while statement in the IEnumerator
- Added two point lights to the oven to make a fire effect

2. Reflection

I think overall, the proposal and break-down were helpful. It gave us a good idea of what the game should look like as we developed it, including specific mechanics like the how the interactions should look. There are some things I think we still need to implement, as we don't have a locator in the game yet. I think adding one and cleaning up some of the code could make it less tightly coupled and make things clearer. We used a google sheets document to keep track of progress.

### Landon Her
I contributed to coding player interactions. PlayerInteractor, IInteractable, InteractPromptUI are a few I’ve contributed too. PlayerInteractor handles the detection of and interaction with NPCs and collectables using Physics.SphereCastAll. The class included variables similar to those seen in some of the recent in-class demos being rayOrigin, sphereRadius, and interactDistance. The breakdowns always help in giving me a place to start as they outline what scripts/objects we are going to have and what’s in them like their components for example. The proposal helped in the sense that it was a more structured form of the breakdown. It gave me the gist of what our game was gonna be about and its theme. It immersed me in a way. Whereas the breakdown gave me a point to start, the proposal gave me the next step. Thinking back on it though, our proposal wasn’t the most detailed, ending up with me having to address them later as I was coding. But like I said, the proposal gave me the gist and enough to get me started somewhere. I think planning the proposal in the way we do breakdowns would help improve my planning process for future projects. For the finite state machine in the proposal for example, it would’ve helped if we listed everything that would have a finite state machine and what states each thing would have in a bullet point like list or something that’s easy to read.

### Rebecca Feng
At this stage, I've mainly contributed to the beginning cutscene comic panels, the dialogue each NPC will say, as well as the level design of the game. I've painted on the terrain and added multiple types of trees, including the chocolate and caramel trees, as well as the lemon, strawberry, and blueberry bushes.

The Proposal was pretty detailed enough, but the Quest section should have more information on how rare obtaining each ingredient is. For the level design, I was guessing that blueberries and chocolate sap would be the rarer objects, so I decided to add more caramel trees and strawberry and lemon bushes, while reducing the amount of blueberry bushes and chocolate trees in the Scene. This level design would give players more of a challenge to find the ingredients they need to complete the quest and beat the game, assuming they need blueberries and chocolate sap to complete the quest. Overall, the proposal helped me see the vision of the game, which helped a lot with writing the dialgoue and the level design.
The break-down activity did not help me much, since most of the work I've contributed did not involve programming yet. I've mostly worked on the Scene.

## Final Submission
### Group Devlog
Our game uses the three design patterns of the Model-View-Controller, a Singleton, and a Finite State Machine.

#### MVC Pattern
An example of the incorporation of the MVC pattern is in the game’s dialogue system. The dialogue system demonstrates the MVC concept by separating the visuals from the data from the logic. The dialogue system is composed of dialogue node ScriptableObjects, which contains the data (model). Each dialogue node contains the information needed to display the lines, the choices as a string array, and the next dialogue node corresponding to those choices.

The DialogueManager class handles the logic (controller) of this system, which is decoupled from the dialogue node ScriptableObjects. The DialogueManager determines which lines play when, which choices correspond to which reply lines, and which dialogue node to go to next. For example, the method Advance(DialogueData _dialogueData) passes in the current dialogue data being used in order to determine how to handle the dialogue. This might be for the initial lines of a dialogue or for additional lines played after the next node has been selected and is adjusted with the variable _currentData. This method iterates through the dialogue lines until the int _currentLine exceeds the number of lines in the array,  at which point it runs the method AdvanceAfterLines(). AdvanceAfterLines() checks for various things and runs the logic of friendship checks, handling reply logic, and moving onto the next DialogueNode.

The visuals (view) are also decoupled from the logic. One example of this is how portraits are handled in each dialogue node. Inside the DialogueNode ScriptableObject is the code "public DialogueData[] _lines;" which creates a section at the top of each dialogue node called "lines", an array that appears in the inspector. Elements can be added to the array there. An element contains a string for the dialogue as well as a portrait slot (this is done through a Serializable class). Sprites can be dragged into this slot in the inspector rather than being attached to the DialogueNode inherently. This means that the visuals are contained in a separate location, such as a portraits folder. In this way, the model, view, and controller are separated.

Overall, this helped structure the project because the ScriptableObjects contained a useful and intuitive way of keeping track of the data without requiring our team from editing the scripts to change the dialogue. The controller handles the functions of the dialogue system separately, and visuals can be adjusted easily without affecting the other systems.


#### Singleton Pattern
Write about singleton here


#### Finite State Machine Pattern
The Finite State Machine (FSM) design pattern was used in the OvenMenuController script of our project to control how the oven UI will behave based on the interaction state it is in. The variable _isOpen is one of these interaction states, switching between the oven UI’s opened and closed states. The variable _isBaking is another interaction state, switching between its baking and non-baking states. Additionally, an enum is used in the form of the OvenSelectionArea enum holding the states PlayerInventory, OvenInventory, and Bakebutton. These represent the different states the player can select in the oven UI. Depending on which state is selected and interacted with, a different output is given. For example, if selecting the PlayerInventory or the OvenInventory states, the player can press a key to transfer collected items between these two states, whereas if in the BakeButton state, pressing the interaction key will use up what items you have in the OvenInventory state and give you a new item. This is handled in the HandleTransferOrBake() method. In this system, the player input is interpreted differently depending on which state is active. Specifically, the statement “if (!_isOpen || _isBaking) return;” controls the player input. This prevents any interaction unless the oven is open and not in a restrictive state like baking. Additionally, the states were switched between through methods like OpenMenu() and CloseMenu(), which toggled the _isOpen state. This FSM structure was useful because it helped cleanly separate different interaction states within the oven system and prevented conflicting inputs by having no two states be active at the same time. By ensuring that only one state is active at a time and that a specific behavior is strictly tied to its respective state, the system became more manageable to work with and easier to understand and build upon.




### Frances Kim
This is going to be really long because I want to document the entire logic of the dialogue system for future note and for my teammates. I apologize for that and will include a TLDR here for a simpler version. TLDR: I made the ScriptableObjects DialogueNode, Quest, and FriendshipVariable to keep track of the data decoupled from the logic. Many of these contain Serializable classes like DialogueData, which contains the portrait and dialogue line and is added as an adjustable array in DialogueNode. I made the NPCs react with different dialogue based on the current state of their quest. I made a friendship system that changes based on the reply options selected and can lead to different branching dialogue. I rewrote the DialogueManager to include methods like AdvanceAfterLines(), which organizes the way lines work and add more functionalities. Advance(DialogueData _dialogueData) is another method that takes a new variable, _currentData, and runs dialogue based on that.


#### Long version
Since the final check-in, my main contribution was to the dialogue system. I did some other stuff with the interaction system and adjusting the movement as well, but I rewrote the dialogue system to contain the mechanics necessary to execute the script for the game and the quest gameplay. I also created the quest system and a friendship system that are both incorporated into the dialogue. The new system is scalable and has everything necessary for game design adjustable in the inspector rather than having to change any logic in the code.


The dialogue system uses DialogueNode ScriptableObjects like in the demo. Each DialogueNode contains an array of SerializableClass DialogueData called _lines, a string array called _playerReplyOptions, and an array of Serializable class NextNode called _nextNode._lines allows the designer to add to or remove from an array in the inspector, with each DialogueData element containing a string for the dialogue and a sprite that can be dragged in for the chararacter portrait. _playerReplyOptions is just the string array for the different replies a player can select after the DialogueManager finishes playing _lines. _nextNode contains an array of NextNodes.


Each NextNode contains:
1. a FriendshipCheck Serializable class. FriendshipCheck contains a slot for a FriendshipVariable ScriptableObject, which I made to contain and keep track of friendship levels, and an int called _friendshipCondition. If FriendshipVariable != null, the DialogueManager can select the NextNode element which passes the friendship check (which means _friendshipCondition <= FriendshipVariable).
2. a FriendshipChange Serializable class. FriendshipChange also contains a FriendshipVariable as well as an OperationType enum. This enum contains Null, Add, and Subtract. If a FriendshipVariable ScriptableObject is selected and the enum is changed from null to either Add or Subtract, FriendshipChange will change the FriendshipVariable's friendship level if that NextNode is selected. For example, let's say the player selects the first reply, which corresponds to the 0th element of _nextNode. That NextNode contains SquirrelFriendship in the FriendshipVariable slot, and the OperationType is set to Add. This means SquirrelFriendship's friendship level will increase by one (you chose the good option!) 
3. an array of DialogueData called _extraLines. This just runs more lines after the NextNode is selected. This is to help reduce branching, something I noticed would be needed when reading the script. In the script, each choice gave a different reply, but they both progressed to the next set of choices. So if you said something nice to the squirrel or mean to the squirrel, the squirrel would respond differently, but the next dialogue choices were the same regardless of what you chose. This meant that if I immediately progressed to the next node after a choice, I would have exponentially more DialogueNodes than would logically be needed.
4. a DialogueNode slot called _nextDialogueNode. After _extraLines are done playing (or if there aren't any), this progresses the dialogue to the next DialogueNode.
5. Extra note: the FriendshipCheck and FriendshipChange can be left alone if not applicable. This just ignores them.


Each DialogueNode also  contains Serializable class SetQuestState and a slot for an ItemData ScriptableObject (which can both be untouched and skipped over if not applicable). SetQuestState contains an enum QuestState (which contains Null, NotStarted, Started, Failed, Succeeded) called _questStateToSet as well as a Quest ScriptableObject called _questToSet. SetQuestState changes the enum of the ScriptableObject's QuestState. An item can be dragged into the ItemData ScriptableObject slot to give the player an item. This is useful for when the player obtains the flour by completing the Squirrel's quest.


In order to incorporate the quest system into the dialogue system, I created a slot to insert a Quest as _currentQuest and an array of the Serializable class QuestToDialogue in the NPCInteractable script. QuestToDialogue contains a QuestState and a DialogueNode. When you talk to an NPC, the NPCInteractable Script checks if there is anything in _currentQuest. If so, it runs the method SelectDialogueNode(Quest _currentQuest) and runs a foreach loop that matches the QuestState of the QuestToDialogueArray to the QuestState of the _currentQuest. It then sets the variable "dialogue" to the DialogueNode that corresponds to the QuestState that matches. The end of the Interact(PlayerInteractor interactor) script runs DialogueManager.Instance.StartDialogue(dialogue); to start the DialogueManager with the correct dialogue.


Finally, I believe that the most important contribution to this dialogue system was rewriting the DialogueManager script to handle the logic of all of these mechanics properly.  The method StartDialogue(DialogueNode asset) is called by the NPCInteractable. It sets "asset" as _currentNode. It then calls the method SetupNode() and passes in _currentNode. SetupNode() checks if there are any initial lines at the start of the Node. If so, it sets the int variable _currentLine to 0, sets int _lengthOfArray = the number of _lines in the node, and sets _currentData = the _currentLine of _lines. If not, it sets _currentData = null. Back to StartDialogue(), after SetupNode() is called and every variable is set up, the method calls Advance(_currentData). As a note, the Advance(DialogueData _dialogueData) method also gets called in the method TypeWriter(), which deals with input. TypeWriter() is called in Update() every frame. The Advance(DialogueData _dialogueData) method checks if _currentData = null. If so, which means there's no DialogueData being processed, it calls AdvanceAfterLines(). If there is something in _currentData, it checks if _currentLine < _lengthOfArray and iterates through the lines and shows the dialogue until it runs out, at which point it calls AdvanceAfterLines().


AdvanceAfterLines() checks if the bool _dialogueOver == false. _dialogueOver is a bool that checks whether or not the current DialogueNode has completed its initial lines. This is important for dealing with the DialogueNode's extra lines. If _dialogueOver == false, it checks for reply options and shows them if there are any, and if there aren't any reply options, it iterates through any elements in the _nextNode array to see if a friendship condition has been met. If it has, it passes in that element into SelectedOption(intOption). SelectedOption() is also called when a reply choice button is pressed. It is a method that changes the Friendship if applicable and begins playing the extra lines if there are any. If there are extra lines, it sets up _currentData to use those and calls Advance() again. This is why I set up _lengthOfArray as its own variable that can be adjusted, as that way, Advance() can be used for both the extra lines and initial lines without needing another method. If there aren't extra lines, it calls SetupNode() and advances with the new node. Let's say that Advance() has gone through all the _extraLines. Then, when AdvanceAfterLines() is called again, _dialogueOver() would be True. And so the method moves onto the next Dialogue Node if one exists and calls EndDialogue() if not. EndDialogue resets all the variables like _cureentNode to null and hides the dialogue UI.




### Landon Her
Since the Check-In, I’ve contributed to the implementation of the player inventory, oven inventory, and their interactions. The player inventory systems I implemented included the Inventory, InventorySlot, and InventoryUI class. In the Inventory class I manage item storage using List<InventorySlot> and includes methods such as Add(ItemData item, int amount), Remove(ItemData item, int amount), and RemoveFromSlot(int index, int amount). I also implemented the OnInventoryChanged event to allow UI elements to automatically update when the inventory changes. The InventoryUI script instantiates slot prefabs I made in the scene and binds them to data using the Bind() method in InventorySlotUI, which updates icons and item counts. 

Implementing the oven crafting system included the OvenMenuController and OvenInteractable scripts. The oven uses a separate inventory to store ingredients temporarily and allows the player to transfer items between inventories using methods like TransferToOven() and TransferToPlayer(). I implemented grid-based navigation using WASD by tracking indices such as _playerIndex and _ovenIndex, and highlighting selected slots through InventoryUI.SetHighlight(). I also added logic for selecting and activating the bake button using an enum-based selection system (OvenSelectionArea) and handling input through HandleTransferOrBake(). 

Finally, I implemented the recipe validation system using the RecipeData ScriptableObject. The Bake() method checks if the oven inventory contains all required ingredients using HasRequiredIngredients(), removes them using ovenInventory.Remove(...), and adds the result item to the player inventory using playerInventory.Add(...).ovenInventory.Remove(...), and adds the result item to the player inventory using playerInventory.Add(...).

### Team Member Name 3
Put your individual final Devlog here.

## Open-Source Assets
- [BGM: "After-Five" - Yuhei Komatsu](https://dova-s.jp/en/bgm/detail/22141)
- [Berry Collection SFX: pop_4 - Chequered Ink](https://ci.itch.io/400-sounds-pack)
